strictly a poor boy's school then. Describe the
project houses. Well, the project houses,
incidentally, there was one at A&M. The building
is still there where the campus security is. That
was built by the American
Eagle. The money for it and everything, and they
sponsored these boys in that building. The other
project houses started by... mostly by Dan
Russell, I believe it was.
They took different counties, and there'd be some
lady that would come from those counties, maybe a
widow lady or somebody like that, and she would be
the cook. And they'd bring their groceries from
that county into that pocket house, and these boys
would stay there in that pocket house. Now did the
rest of y'all respect the project house boys? Did
y'all make fun of them as being poor kids? I
remember one time there was a group that they
picked up all over the United States and they put in
a dormitory there. I've forgotten the name of the
dormitory. They brought them in and and put them in
that dormitory. They brought them in from out of
Texas and everywhere. And that was rumored to be a
pretty rough place. However, as I understand it,
there were several of them that had lived there
where part of it later became real outstanding
good people. And I think George McCullough,
George McCullough, who would later be the dean of
the graduate school. He was one, and Harry Kunkel
was one.
I think that
the one that ended up running that concession
stand at A&M across from the old high school that I
went to was one of that dudes. They
were right along by the time I graduated from A&M or
something. I think that's about when they
started.
Let's see. On the campus, what were the major
buildings? Describe the campus when you were a
student. What was there? Well, as you go on the
campus, I remember the Mitchell Hall. Did
you go to him with your hernia? No. I don't think
they'd take care of that. I went up there once
several times. We had to pay, when you're
registering in, you had to pay some kind of a fee,
but you could go on what's called sick call over
there. And they had some bids there. I remember
being there one time with the flu.
They had beds there and nurses, of course. There
used to be a nurse called Mom Clegghorn
that was there. That hospital was right on the
other side of the President Hall. And going down
the Military Walk on
the left was Mitchell Hall, Legend Hall. YMCA was
out on the right. remember
a gas ride hall and then there was a hall place on
further down that
as you go to gun hall it was on the left it was a very uh
was it was hart hall there yet no it wasn't This hall
was on the left just before you get to God Hall at the
end of the military
wall. There was an old red brick building there.
I've seen the pictures. Real nice architecture. I
remember I would go up in there when I was going to
school and get pigeons out of there and take them
over inside a what
did y'all what happened at gyne hall what did y'all
do at gyne hall
well gyne hall is where they had the ceremonies as I
remember
I don't know if that's where I received my diploma
or not did they show movies in gyne hall
No, there was another hall right next to the old,
across from the YMCA building was the Hollywood,
or what do you call it, tents? It had the square tent
where the students stayed also. I was there at that
time. I don't know whether I was at college or in or
not. And off to the right of that was where they had
the movies. That was just before you get to the
Presley's
house. Facing west of the wide city building. It
had two stories. Well, sort of like the Army
houses.
had a balcony around, and I've forgotten how the
seating was, but the seating was according to
class.
Seniors had the seats that they wanted, and I
remember going to school, I'd have to slip in
there, and sometimes the Aggies would pick me up
overhead and take me in. This is when you were in
high school? Well, this is kind of when I was in
grade school. Oh, oh, grade school. Okay. Oh,
okay. They didn't check the tickets too close.
But we'd have, oh, incidentally, there, too, we'd
go in this hall. I've forgotten the name of it. It's
kind of where the chapel is now. with the Aggies
were playing out of town in football, they had a
black board up there, green, and they would, over
the radio I suppose, and they would mark on that
board how the football team was doing, and they had
that in the hall. And it had a good attendance. And
let's see, then the academic building was the big
building, wasn't it? The one with the dome on it.
Right, right. That was the big... The flagpole out
in front of there is the one I'm talking about that
quite often when Colonel Andy was in combat,
they'd run up a flag and he'd have to pay somebody to
climb up there and get it down. And then Cushing
Library...
I don't think it was that. Really?
I don't really remember. Now, where did you take
most of it? We had the exchange store. When I was
going to school, that right in front of the
exchange store was the grocery store. On campus?
On campus. And on the other side of the grocery
store was the electrical shop, the plumbing shop,
and stuff like that. Did the whistle blow at 8
o'clock, 12 o'clock? Oh, yes. To this day, I still
did that at 8 o'clock, at 12 o'clock, 1 o'clock, and
then at 5. And you could hear people out. You don't
realize how people out in the country at that time
depended on that whistle. People several miles
away.
Now, the railroad station was a busy place.
Oh,
yeah, that's the first track that the ING and I did
was. They had a railroad building there, of
course, on the other side of Southern Pacific. And
the trains run pretty well on schedule, several
times a day, going between Houston and Dallas. And
I remember we got on one time. was able to go, we went
to, I believe, Baton Rouge at a football game. And
they let us sleep on the train. And we also, that
time that there was a fight up there at Baylor when
they suspended up there, I went with my uncle.
Everybody went up on the train and they had a
baggage car where they'd have soda water and
sandwiches and whatnot. And I would say the entire
group that went to the game went on trains. Very few
people used a car to go. And we had some indication
before we went up there of what they were going to
do. And they had been told to please do not do that.
They were ridiculing the, as I remember, the
farmerettes, or the farm girls. And some old big
boy, they had a car that went out on the field, and
some old boy went out there and jumped into them.
And they started, they were doing some repair work
at Baylor Stadium. And they had a bunch of boards
around there about three feet long, and a bunch of
those. At that time, too, at the football games,
all the freshmen came over and sat on the
sidelines, freshman football players. So they
had boards, and they got out in the middle of the
field and they were fighting, and then they played
the Star-Spangled Banner and a lot of Aggies stood
at attention. And one of them was hit. Hit with a
board? Yes. Best I remember. I'm sure that's what
it was. Anyway, that boy died. And as I understand
from later on, Dr. T.O. Walton, a man that I
respected a lot. He was a good man. He had time for
anybody.
He was a good man. He told me that if they sent
somebody up there for a period of a maybe three or
four years and paid his way at Baylor, but they
never really found out who did that. But they
suspended all athletics with for four years I was
schooled or something like that. Now was this
while you were a student or a little earlier? This
was earlier. My uncle took me up there by train and
that was, I couldn't have been over maybe 12 or 13 at
the time. Now when you were a freshman, did you go to
any of the out of town football games? Did you go on a
court trip? Well, I went to the one over there in
Louisiana that time. Don't remember much about
it, although we slept on the train. Oh, I went to
Dallas on several occasions, and I knew a girl that
I had met. This is something else. When I was at,
anyway, this girl I had met was going to SMU And I
remember my clothes were rather shabby. SMU was a
moneyed school, and I somewhat felt a little bit
out of place.
But I enjoyed myself. I remember I went on a court
trip to SMU up there, and that's when two of the
girls from CIA, They were so often, they'd come
down to A&M and go to these dances and whatnot. And
there was a correspondence way that the girls from
there would send a letter to the same box number at
A&M. I remember a little bit about that. Did you
ever have a date with one of those, a blind date with
a CIA girl? No,
I didn't. I took a little money, and somehow or
another, transportation or something. As a
freshman and sophomore, I didn't have the money to
go to those dances. When you went to that court trip
in Dallas, you went on the train. Where did you
spend the night?
I don't really remember whether we spent it on the
train or
sometimes we'd get a room between a bunch of us
together, I suppose. I remember something about
that. Did the Aggies party much on court trips?
Well, we thought we were, but we didn't drink very
much, anything like that. Once in a while they
would a little bit, but drinking wasn't a problem
back there. During those years, did you ever
hitchhike? All the time. Describe how an Aggie
hitchhiked in those days. Well, you'd go up there
more or less to the east, where the East Gate is now,
near Walton Drive. I've seen as many as a hundred or
two out there. going to Houston as an example.
It seemed like every car that had an empty space
would stop for us, and of course we took turns. That
is, about when you were there, you had to get back in
line. And a lot of times at that time, the bunch
would go to Houston. I went down there for a ride
scheme. And so many of us were there, At that time,
they were hauling cotton down to Houston,
Galveston, cotton trucks, and they were always
coming back empty with flatbeds. And I've been on
those flatbeds with those Aggies coming back. I
suppose 40 or 50 on a flatbed, they'd haul us back to
College Station. Do you remember ever hearing of
an Aggie having a bad hitchhike experience? No. I
haven't heard of it. Do you remember any
interesting hitchhike experiences, though?
Funny? Goofy? No, I really don't. I remember
several of them from the Army. I hitchhiked when I
got out of the Army. at Camp Robert. I was going to
OCS and I hitchhiked back. What about some pranks
or jokes or good bull that students did when you
were at A&M? Well, I think there was a regular
session of that they called it, a bull session. I
remember one thing what we would do, they would do
quite a bit. They'd get some freshman to come in
there, and they'd give him his stripes, you know.
He was really a gung-ho, and they'd give him his
stripes, but he'd get them sewed on and
everything, but they'd be upside down. And they
would tell him that was so they'd catch water, hold
water. And he'd write his folks and tell them about
how he'd been promoted and all that. And, you know,
they'd come to find out that was just
a joke on him. I remember that. I remember Well,
like for instance in the little tents across from
Guyon Hall, I mean not Guyon Hall, the YMCA, we had
wood heaters in there. And we'd get in there once in
a while and sit around.
That was more or less our entertainment because
The picture shows didn't maybe just one or two
nights a week or something like that. The rest of
the time you either listened to the radio or study
or sit around with bull sessions.
Did you all ever play any tricks on any teacher? Not
that I remember. As you
think back, who were the teachers, the advisors
that really were important in your A&M days? Who
were the people that were real helpful?
I remember S.S. Morgan was very helpful for me.
There was another teacher in college algebra that
helped me real well, and I remember Mr. Powell. in
the cotton market in the classes that I took. I
enjoyed that, and I thought he was very able, and I
enjoyed the classes, got a lot out of it. And this
Morgan was an English teacher, Did you all have a
nickname for him? Later they would call him Bloody
Morgan because there would be so much red ink on
your term paper it would be like he had spilled
blood on it. I don't remember that. I remember Mr.
Snuggs, he'd get out in class when you first came
there and he said, my name is, I believe, Professor
Snuggs. And he said, I'm married to Mrs. Snuggs,
and we live in our snuggie little home. You ever
heard that? No. That's good. That's good. I
remember that to this day. All right. What about
over in agriculture? Were there some important
people and good teachers over there? Well,
I can't recall some of the names. I remember I had
one. I'll try to think of his name, one teacher in
agronomy.
I can't say that I disliked him, because that
wouldn't be fair to him. But I took agronomy 105. It
was a five-hour course, and I was also working at
the time, and I didn't spend the time studying. It
was a very difficult course.
He had a bunch of us in there, and to this day I wish I
had learned more in that course.
I can't say that I blame him for it. Was Dean Kyle
still around in those days? Yes. Please describe
him. I haven't had anybody talk about him before.
What was he like? I always thought he was a little
aloof. He was the Dean of Agriculture, as I
remember. And there was something there, a little
something about naming Kyle Field. I asked Pinky
Downs one time about it, and Pinky Downs said he
didn't want to talk about it. So that's about all I
really know about it. I do know that Dean Kyle's
brother, the best to operate on me for a hernia,
when I was in my, Between my second sophomore year
and junior year, I went to Houston and had a hernia
operation. And it was Dean Kyle's brother that did
the surgery? He operated on me at Jefferson Davis
Hospital down there in Houston.
That was Dean Kyle's brother. What did Dean Kyle
look like? As I remember, he was kind of a tall,
aloof, just kind of held himself off. Of course, he
was the dean of agriculture. you realize, too,
that he was the one that would put the final say on
whether you stayed in school or not. My grades
weren't too good. I was a little between not being
able to go back and see friends. Now, was Walton the
president then? Who was president?
I don't remember. I knew Dr. Walton really later,
real well, when he became postmaster at College
Station. Describe his personality.
Well, he had time for anybody. He'd come down and
he had a very good understanding. if someone had a
problem there, the post office is an example, we'd
call them in his office, sit them down, and talk to
them. I remember one occasion when the student was
very unhappy, came in there, and Dr. Walton said,
now young man, he said, I want you to get up and
leave, and when you know how to act, respect me,
well then you come back. Sure enough, the young man
went back later and apologized to him. That's the
only time I've ever known him to be a... You were
talking about Dr. Walton. What was he physically?
Was he big, small? Yeah, he was a pretty good sized
person. Really was. But like I say, he had time to
talk to each and any individual about various, any
subject. He wasn't, sometimes way back there
particularly,
some of the professors you didn't feel like
relaxed with him that it is but dr walton's college
person that you uh he was interested he let
everybody know that he was interested in what they
had to say and we'll talk to him very much uh mr uh
cashin describe him He was in charge at YMCA, I
remember. There was a Mr. Gay there, too. Gordon
Gay. And we used to go there as, when I was in, before
I was in A&M, and we would play checkers and
dominoes. And they also had ping pong tables.
They were very nice. They treated us okay.
Sometimes I think you got tired of us kids coming in
there. See, that was a place where the campus kids
and off-campus kids could associate together in
the old YMCA building. And they had newspapers and
magazines in there, and go downstairs and maybe
get a
banana split from Casey's. And they had a swimming
pool there, and kids from Bryan used to come out to
that swimming pool.
Sometimes I think certain days you had to wear a
bathing suit, but sometimes you didn't have to
wear a bathing suit. And some of the girls from
around there would use that swimming pool. It was
down in the basement next to where they had the pool
tables. Did you know either of the Little Cashin'
Boys at that time, Red or Jim?
No, I think
I remember when Red Cashion was quarterbacking
for A&M a little bit, but not too well.
Let's see. Let's go back to football. Describe
what you and your buddies, when you were an A&M
student, describe a football home game day. What
time did y'all start doing things when there was a
home football game? What did you do?
Well, it really, at that time, I did the best I
could. It wasn't that big an occasion when I was
going to A&M. Did y'all march into the stadium?
I've forgotten. But you did stand up. Oh, yes. And
if the Aggies won, what did y'all do to the L
leaders? Did you take them to the fish pond? I don't
remember for sure. When I was going to school, I
really don't remember that. Now, let's see.
Was Coach Bible still here or Homer Norton here
when you were a student? That was back in 1938. That
would be Coach Norton then. Dick Todd? Would have
been one of the star players. I remember Dick Todd
was playing when I was going to school. Maybe they
got him somewhere.
Did the athletes get pampered then? Did the
athletes have special courses? No. They were just
like everybody else? They were just like
everybody else. As a matter of fact, they stayed in
the dormitories with all the rest of the students.
That is, the
professors might have looked at, gave them a
little bit of special attention, but I don't think
so. They were just mingled in with all the
students. It wasn't until later on that they
separated them. And were there some notable
students then? Was there anybody here whose
father was governor or senator or rich person? Not
that I remember. Give some examples of how
financially tough it was.
Well, as an example, my stepdad came in with either
a week's salary or a two-week salary and gave me
that.
I don't know whether he had any left over or not for
me to register for A&M. Did you have any spending
money as the years went along? No. Even when I was
going to A&M, I didn't get banana splits down at Mr.
Casey's. That was just on occasion.
They were 25 cents. Did you work while you were an
Aggie? Yes. I had a hard time getting a job at the
time, 25 cents an hour. I
finally did get on with it. landscape department,
I suppose is what you'd call that, at 25th Street.
We did the mowed grass, did various things around
on the campus like that. And also, they took care of
the stables. There were some stables there, well,
more or less where Olsen Field is now. They had some
Army people there. It was a two-story building.
and I don't know how many people there, and they
took care of the horses for the artillery, and they
took care of various things, and also they
taught some classes. Oh, I took one of the classes,
signal corps, and that was taught by one of the
sergeants of that group, but they also had these
stables at the University or the college taking
care of the horses. And I worked, working in the
stables was the preferred job for it, I was
concerned, because you got out of the sun and in the
stables, even though you had to do some sweeping
and you got